---
layout: post-no-feature
title: "Farms"
description: "A farming community."
category: history
tags: [farming]
---

The farms in the village have come and gone, and changed names too.

* Lower Farm
* Ilmer House Farm
* Ilmer Farm
* Cold Harbour Farm
* Manor Farm
* Severalles
* Upper Manor Farm

### Severalles / Lower Farm

Thomas Bradshaw farmed at Lower Farm until 1922 when he sold up. Milk production continued until 1944 by Stanley Claridge who, along with his son William, then stopped milk production at the farm. The Bucks Herald noted 3 years earlier that William was fined 20s for "causing an obstruction with a motor car" in the market square in Aylesbury on October 11th.

One is probably content that the Bucks Herald no longer list minor motoring offences for posterity...

Stanley died aged 66 in August 1947, 3 months after his wife passed.

### Upper Manor Farm / Ilmer House Farm

Ilmer House was the farming residence for land around the south-eastern area of Ilmer. The house was constructed around 1906 by Albert Goodchild who lived there with his wife and daughter Millicent Irene.

In 1931, Albert died aged 58 and the following year the house was put up for auction. It was described in the Bucks Herald's May 27 issue as:

> 275 feet up, with S.E. and S.W. aspects, Vestibule and Hall, 3 Reception Rooms, Billiard Room, Study, 10 Bed and Dressing Rooms, 2 Bathrooms, Offices, Own Electric Light and Water, Central Heating, Modern Drainage, Lavatory Basins in Bedrooms, Garage, Two Cottages, excellent Farm Buildings. Deligtful[sic] Gardens with Tennis and Croquet Lawns in all about 116 acres with Vacant Posession of House, Farm Buildings, 1 Cottage and Garden. Hunting with the South Oxfordshire, Old Berkeley, Bicester etc

A Mr W White is recorded as being resident in the house until about 1936 followed by a Mr R Attenborough.

During the 1970s, a new farm residence was constructed - what is now Upper Manor Farm which allowed Ilmer House to part ways with its farmland.

### Manor Farm

Richard Belgrove farmed Manor Farm for 48 years in the late 19th century. By 1947, J Shurrock was recorded as living at the farm.
